chain op 4844 updates (#481)
ethereum-optimism/docs: pages/builders/notices/ecotone-fee-changes.mdx

This function would be automatically updated during the proposed upgrade.
Avoid implementing the formula yourself, as it may change in the future.

## For Chain Operators

The proposed Ecotone upgrade impacts OP chains and requires chain operators to upgrade their chain and configure the sequencer for Ecotone.
Chain operators will also want to review the guide on [Using Blobs](/builders/chain-operators/management/blobs) for next steps after Ecotone activation.

### Preparing Your Chain

OP chains will essentially complete three steps for Ecotone: upgrade to the new release, configure the chain to update at the right time, and prepare for activation (which can take a month).

<Callout type="warning">
  You must first configure your multisig and [L1 data fee configuration](/stack/transactions/fees#l1-data-fee) and [restart your batcher](../chain-operators/management/operations) with the updated configuration before Ecotone activation.
</Callout>

1.  Upgrade your sequencer to the latest `op-geth` and `op-node` releases

<Callout>

>   Ecotone Sepolia releases are published and will activate at Wed Feb 21 17:00:00 UTC 2024. The Ecotone upgrade for OP Mainnet is not scheduled yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Ecotone Sepolia releases are published and will activate at Wed Feb 21 17:00:00 UTC 2024. The Ecotone upgrade for OP Mainnet is optimistically scheduled for Mon Mar 18 17:00:01 UTC 2024.
```

Reviewer 2: We want to be careful here about timelines, we might want to check with Cristina on if saying, "optimistically scheduled is fine"

Author: agreed @sbvegan going to hold off on this update, as I think we have to wait for the official vote to add comments like that too docs.

</Callout>

> *   [op-geth v1.101308.0](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/op-geth/releases/tag/v1.101308.0)
> *   [op-node, op-batcher, op-proposer v1.5.1](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/releases/tag/v1.5.1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   [op-geth v1.101308.1](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/op-geth/releases/tag/v1.101308.1)
*   [op-node, op-batcher, op-proposer v1.6.1](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/releases/tag/v1.6.1)
```

Author: updated

> 2.  Configure the Ecotone Activation Date

Reviewer: This section seems quite duplicated, is that on purpose?

Author: yes, intentional but will look for way to clean this up

  Also, due to the removal of the `overhead` in the calculation of L1 data fees, after Ecotone activates, chain operators are expected to experience an up to 10% decrease in L1 fee margin.
  This could result in operating at a loss until the above steps are completed.
</Callout>

## For Node Operators

The proposed Ecotone upgrade impacts node operators because of the new Beacon endpoint for `op-node` and soon after the Ecotone activation, batch
transactions will be sent as 4844 blobs, and blobs can only be retrieved from Beacon nodes.
This means node operators will need access to a [consensus client](https://ethereum.org/developers/docs/nodes-and-clients#consensus-clients) (i.e. Lighthouse, Lodestar, Nimbus, Prysm, Teku, etc.).

### Preparing Your Node

Existing node operators have additional steps to follow and should read the guide on [preparing existing nodes for Ecotone](/builders/node-operators/network-upgrades/ecotone).

These steps are necessary for EVERY node operator:

1.  Update to the latest release

*   [`op-geth`](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/op-geth/releases/tag/v1.101305.3)
*   [`op-node`](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/releases/tag/v1.5.0)

> 2.  Configure the Ecotone Activation Date

Reviewer: here duplicated 3rd time?

Author: looking for way to clean this up

Chain operators will also want to review the guide on [Using Blobs](/builders/chain-operators/management/blobs) for next steps after Ecotone activation.

### Preparing Your Chain

OP chains will essentially complete three steps for Ecotone: upgrade to the new release, configure the chain to update at the right time, and prepare for activation (which can take a month).

<Callout type="warning">
  You must first configure your multisig and [L1 data fee configuration](/stack/transactions/fees#l1-data-fee) and [restart your batcher](../chain-operators/management/operations) with the updated configuration before Ecotone activation.
</Callout>

1.  Upgrade your sequencer to the latest `op-geth` and `op-node` releases

<Callout>
  Ecotone Sepolia releases are published and will activate at Wed Feb 21 17:00:00 UTC 2024. The Ecotone upgrade for OP Mainnet is not scheduled yet.
</Callout>

*   [op-geth](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/op-geth/releases/tag/v1.101308.1)
*   [op-node, op-batcher, op-proposer](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/releases/tag/v1.6.1)

2.  Configure the Ecotone Activation Date

> *   For OP Chains that have entries in the `superchain-registry`, the Ecotone activation date is part of the `op-node` and `op-geth` nodes. So, no action is needed for the sequencer after upgrading to the latest release.

Reviewer 3: Every time we mention the superchain-registry, should add this link for them to see if their chain is listed: https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/superchain-registry/blob/main/superchain/configs/chainids.json

Author: Done
